♪♪
♪ In a kingdom
old and grand ♪
♪ Elena ♪
♪ A princess bravely
rules the land ♪
♪ Elena ♪
♪ With her family
by her side ♪
♪ Elena ♪
♪ It's a wild
and daring ride ♪
♪ Elena ♪
♪ Elena of Avalor ♪
♪ Myth and mystery everywhere ♪
♪ Myth and mystery
everywhere ♪
♪ Loyal friends
are always there ♪
always there ♪
♪ Magic shines from
deep within ♪
♪ Magic shines
from within ♪
♪ Let her royal reign begin ♪
♪ Elena, Elena ♪
♪ Elena of Avalor ♪
Wow, Naomi,
the lighthouse looks great.
I didn't expect you
to change so much.
You put me in charge
of fixing up the lighthouse,
so I fixed it up,
and here's the best part.
Isabel helped me build
a new type of lantern.
We call it
the light writer.
By making the light
flash on and off,
we can send messages
out to ships at sea.
Now there's a bright
idea.
Har-har.
Here, I'll show you
how it works.
My dad's out on
a patrol ship,
so I'll send him
a message right now.
- Naomi, I've been looking
all over for you.
You got another letter
from Captain Turner.
Wait, your dad
mailed you a letter?
No, Your Majesty.
The other Captain Turner.
My mom.
Oh. How long has she
been at sea now?
Six months, three weeks,
and two days.
But who's counting?
She finished her voyage,
and is on her way
to Avalor,
and has a big surprise
to tell me and Dad
when she gets here.
When's that?
She said two weeks,
but wait.
She sent the letter
two weeks ago,
so that means she
should be here today!
!
- I better tell Dad.
Wait, you're really
sending him a message
with light.
It's a code.
Certain patterns
equal letters
that spell out
my message.
You've outdone yourself
again.
Scarlett's... coming...
home?
Today?!
Ready the sails, men,
we're heading back to port.
Aye, aye,
Captain Turner.
I've gotta get our house
in shipshape before Mom arrives.
- I hope I have
enough time.
- I can help you.
You say that now,
but you've never
been to our place.
It's a little messy.
Oh, come on.
How bad could it be?
Yep, that's
pretty bad.
I think we're gonna
need reinforcements.
Reinforcements
have arrived!
Wow, that was fast.
The love of my life
is coming home.
She's worth
the extra hustle.
Okay, we'll clean downstairs
if you clean upstairs.
Let's go, men.
BOTH: Aye, aye,
Captain Turner.
What do you think
your mom's big surprise
is gonna be?
I don't know.
I'm hoping...
well, I don't wanna
jinx it by saying it out loud.
It's okay.
You can tell me.
I've spent most of
my life traveling.
I've never really
felt like I had a home,
until I came to Avalor.
There's just one thing
I want
that would make
everything perfect.
♪ Since my mom
is a captain of the sea ♪
♪ She travels
far and wide ♪
♪ It's her job, but I wish
that she could be with me ♪
♪ A little more
by my side ♪
♪ By my side ♪
♪ So my mom told us both
that she would vow ♪
♪ To someday
find a way ♪
♪ That she could settle
down with us somehow ♪
♪ And finally come ashore
here to stay ♪
♪ If she could ♪
♪ How I wish she would ♪
♪ Tell me the words
I long to hear ♪
♪ This time,
she's coming home for good ♪
♪ Finally coming home ♪
♪ For good ♪
♪ We'll have good times
and laughter every day ♪
♪ Like other families do ♪
♪ For so long, my dream
seemed so far away ♪
♪ I really hope that
this time ♪
♪ It comes true ♪
♪ If she could ♪
♪ How I wish
she would ♪
♪ Tell me the words
I've longed to hear ♪
♪ This time, she's coming
home for good ♪
♪ Finally coming home
for good ♪
♪ Hope she's coming home ♪
♪ For good ♪
I know that bell.
It's my mom's ship.
Ho ho, is that
the Wayfarer I hear?
( bell continues
ringing )
Ahoy, family!
Ahoy, Mom!
Should we go
meet her?
- No need. She'll
take care of that.
Nomes!
Mom!
Captain Turner.
Oh!
Welcome back.
Ha ha!
It's good
to be back.
Mom, I want you
to meet Elena.
Oh, Crown Princess.
Naomi's written me
all about you.
Good to meetcha!
The pleasure's
all mi-i-i-ine!
So, what's your
big surprise?
Don't you wanna tell me
what's been going on
with you first?
Nope. Big surprise.
Now, please.
Okay.
Remember our old plan
that I would find a job
where I didn't have
to travel so much?
So we can settle
down in one place.
Uh-huh.
Well, I finally
got that job,
in the kingdom
of Norberg.
!
The kingdom
we came from,
where Naomi was born.
I'm the new admiral
of the Norberg coast guard.
So you're leaving Avalor?
That's right.
We sail out
in four days.
!
- Another move.
This certainly is
a big surprise,
but I suppose it means
we'll all be together,
just like you
always wanted, Naomi.
I guess so.
Then start packing.
I have a ship to dock.
I can't believe
you're leaving Avalor.
I don't wanna
leave, Elena.
I might've been
born in Norberg,
but I haven't lived there
since I was two.
My real home
is here in Avalor,
with the grand council.
My friends.
You!
But my mom got this job,
so I guess
I have to go.
Well, what if
I offered her
- a better job
in Avalor?
I'd do whatever it took
to get you to stay.
That's... wow.
Thanks, Elena.
But when my mom
has her mind set on something,
it can be pretty hard
to change it.
Well, lucky for you,
I'm the same way.
Where are you going?
I have to get
everything ready.
See you tomorrow.
Wait. Ready for what?
Okay, a-one
and a-two and a...
( mariachi music plays,
cat yowls )
Princess Elena?
Good morning,
Captain Turner.
Naomi has told me
countless stories
of your heroic deeds
as captain of the Sea Farer.
- Wayfarer.
And it occurred to me
that we needed someone
with your naval know-how,
right here in Avalor.
Now I know Norberg
has already offered you
an admiral's post,
so I am prepared
to make you
the supreme commanding
master chief admiral
of the Avalor coast guard.
I've never heard
of such a position.
Well, that's because
I created it just for you.
Just for me?
What an honor.
So you'll accept?
No, I'm afraid not.
But you also get
your very own horse...
and carriage.
Thank you, but no.
But wait, there's more.
You also get
any ship in the fleet.
Just take your pick.
It's still a no.
I'm still not done.
If you say yes
within the next ten seconds,
I'll throw in new set of
stainless steel swords!
Princess Elena,
I can't tell you
how grateful I am
for your generous offer.
But Norberg is my home.
It's where I grew up.
It's where
my happiest memories are.
And it's the land I love.
Good old Norberg.
Now if you don't mind,
I've gotta start preparing
my ship for the voyage.
You wanna give me
a hand, Nomes?
Maybe later.
I have to finish
fixing up the lighthouse
before we go.
That's my Naomi.
I mean, our Naomi.
Well, thanks
for trying.
I guess I should start
saying my good-byes.
We have three days left.
We're not sunk yet.
What do you mean?
You heard my mom.
Then we're just gonna
have to make her fall
in love with Avalor.
- With a little help
from our friends.
Target approaching.
Remember what Elena said.
If you can help convince
Captain Scarlett Turner
to fall in love
with Avalor and stay--
Then the princess
will officially
owe me a favor.
Don't worry,
I never forget a debt.
Thanks for
the VIP tour, princess.
My pleasure.
This is
the Via Mercado,
the biggest marketplace
in the entire hemisphere.
This is more impressive
than the three-headed
flying fan fish
I saw off the coast
of Corinthia.
Watch how a master salesman
closes a deal.
Oh, you must be the famous
Captain Scarlett Turner
everyone is talking about.
I am Doña Paloma.
Doña Paloma!
Good to meetcha.
Naomi wrote about you.
You own the biggest warehouse
in town, right?
Warehouse?
Uh... ahem.
My emporium features
incredible wonders
from all over Avalor...
and the world.
I'm gonna warn ya.
I've seen my fair share
of wonders in all my travels.
But have you ever seen
all the wonders under one roof,
during a "free
sample day" event?
Free sample day?
Where the kids eat free,
as do the captains of the sea.
Right this way.
No one can resist
the call of the free.
The fruits and vegetables
are all hand-picked
from the Avaloran
rain forest.
Oh, they do
look scrumptious.
They taste even better.
Mmm! I've never tasted
anything so delicious.
Not even in Norberg?
Not even
in Norberg.
Ooh, what's that?
Thank you, Doña.
I finally get why
everyone loves Avalor so much.
- It's as clear
as Merroway Sea at dawn.
And it makes me
want to stay right here...
and spend the rest of the day
getting souvenirs
to take back to Norberg.
Come on, Nomes.
If I couldn't
change her mind,
no one will.
Well, it was nice
knowing you, Naomi.
Come on, Gabe.
There's still two more days.
But what do we do?
Maybe if your mother knew
how much you were needed here,
she'd change her mind.
I think we have
to show her
just how important
you are to Avalor.
How do we do that?
Wait till
the sun goes down.
Then everyone
will see the light.
Our lighthouse
was in shambles,
until Naomi was
put in charge of
overseeing its restoration.
Oh! What's this?
It's called
a light writer.
My sister helped
Naomi build it
so we can communicate
with ships in the harbor.
- Impressive.
- Thanks, Mom.
And she even taught me
how to use it.
What did you tell them?
To ring a bell
for the Turners.
Amazing!
Yeah. I don't know
what we'd do without Naomi.
- I hear you
loud and clear.
We have to leave
as soon as possible,
so you can build a light writer
in Norberg's lighthouse.
I'm gonna get
everything ready
- so we can
ship out tomorrow.
Soon, you'll hear
all the bells in Norberg
ringing just for you.
Oop!
Uh, we could have Mateo
cast a spell.
He can make the wind
stop blowing,
so your family's
ship can't leave.
That would stop
all the other ships
in the harbor, too.
Good point.
Maybe Mateo could
make a potion
that turns the water
to ice.
Same problem.
You're right.
Oh, I've got
the perfect plan.
We'll sink
your mom's ship.
Okay, maybe that's not
the perfect plan.
Ugh, I still can't believe
your mom turned down the chance
to be supreme commanding
master chief admiral.
That's the highest imaginary
rank I've ever made up.
Ah!
So you did offer
Scarlett Turner
a post in
the Avalor coast guard.
Oh, uh...
Hi, abuelo.
You, ahem,
heard about that?
She did it for me.
I love Avalor,
and I don't wanna leave,
but my mom wants me
to move to Norberg.
Elena and I tried
a million things
to change her mind,
but nothing's worked,
and now, we're all out of ideas.
Did you try
telling her the truth?
The truth?
Huh. Why didn't
we think of that?
Because it would
never work.
I wouldn't be
so sure, Naomi.
If you really
want to stay,
you have to at least
tell her how you feel.
Do you really think
that would change her mind?
It's worth a try.
And you've tried
everything else.
Mom, Dad, did you know
nine out of ten doctors
say living in the tropics
is better for your health?
No. More direct.
Mom, Dad, I like
living in Avalor,
and I don't wanna leave.
That's it.
( music playing,
Scarlett laughing )
Mom, what are you doing?
As we were packing, I found
the violin in the closet.
Your mom thought we
should celebrate our big move
with an old family tradition.
Dance with me.
Can we talk first?
Oh, come on.
You used to love dancing
the Norberg jig.
I did?
I don't remember, but--
I do. You'd put
your feet on top
of my feet,
and we would dance
around the house
like this.
- NAOMI: Whoa!
And you would laugh
just like that.
When we get to Norberg,
we'll do a lot more dancing.
And we'll have dinner
together every night,
and we won't ever
spend a holiday apart.
- And play fun games
at the fair?
- Absolutely!
The way I feel
right now,
I don't think
anything could take
the wind out of my sails.
So what was it you wanted
to talk about, Nomes?
Oh.
Well... nothing.
It's not important.
Well, how did it go
with your parents last night?
I didn't tell them.
Why not?
Because they've been
dreaming of this
for so long,
it's gonna make
them so happy.
And I just...
I want my family
to be together.
So...
we're leaving today.
Today?
Uh-huh.
Well, if you can't stay,
I... I hope you'll
let me do one last
thing for you,
and give you
a proper good-bye.
Okay. I'd like that.
Naomi Turner,
we are pleased
to present you
with this medallion of
Maruvian blue crystal,
as a symbol of thanks
for your service on
the grand council.
Thanks, Elena.
You were like the sister
I never had.
And you two were like
grandparents to me.
I'm not sure
what I'm gonna miss more--
your guitar playing,
or your tamales.
- My guitar playing.
- My tamales.
And Esteban.
You're... you're...
Hmph. The feeling is mutual,
I assure you.
And you two.
Like your big brother
and little brother.
Yeah, he means that
the other way around.
Ow!
Oh, Gabe,
are you crying?
What?! No!
I just got
something in my eye.
Naomi, before we
escort you to your ship,
a few more friends
wanted a chance
to say their
last good-byes.
Wow. Looks like
the whole kingdom showed up.
I'm gonna
miss you, Naomi.
- Don't forget to write.
- Good luck in Norberg.
I didn't realize
Naomi meant
so much to Avalor.
Well, she does
take after her mom.
Wherever she goes,
she makes a difference.
You're so sweet.
You didn't have
to do all this.
I wanted to.
Have a safe journey.
I'll miss you.
I'll miss you, too.
Ready to go, Nomes?
Huh?
All right, that's it.
Stop!
Stop the music.
Stop, stop everything.
Just everybody, stop!
Naomi, when you were little,
you used to get rope burns
trying to tie
fancy sailor knots
on our ship,
but you thought that
was just part of the job,
so you put on
a tough face,
and acted like
you weren't hurting.
What's that got
to do with...
You've got that same
kind of look on your
face right now.
So what is it?
I...
Um...
Everything is all right.
I'm so happy that
we're finally all together.
I just...
I wish we could
be together here
in Avalor.
This is the first place
I've lived that really
feels like home.
Why didn't you
tell us this before?
Because I knew you'd both
rather live in Norberg.
Nomes, home is where
the heart is.
Your heart is
here in Avalor,
and my heart
is with both of you,
wherever we are.
And I'm happy to live
anywhere,
as long as
we're all together.
Then it's settled.
We're staying in Avalor.
BOTH: Yes!
So is that job offer
still open, princess?
Ye...
Uh, I have to check.
I'm sure we can
find something.
All right!
Guess we should let
everyone know the good news.
The Turners are staying
in Avalor!
Welcome home.
Home.
That has a nice
ring to it.